you know when you learn the secrets to
hitting your irons flush it becomes
really easy you look forward to hitting
that mid iron out of the fairway because
you know you're going to hit a good one
and most your playing partners are going
to struggle hitting those shots now I've
put together three of my all-time best
videos that are going to share with you
some of those real secrets hitting crisp
irons let's go and get started right so
I'm really excited I've got an awesome
video for you today we're gonna talk
about how you can get out on the course
step over top of one of those iron shots
and be completely confident that you're
gonna hit the ball solid you're not
going to chunk you're not going to thin
the ball you're not going to hit it way
to the right way to the left you're
gonna make that really crisp clean
contact we're going to go over three of
the most important things to do that and
it all starts with covering the ball so
let's jump right into it
let's talk about how you can cover that
golf ball and really compress it now
let's dive right into it how do we cover
the golf ball and first let me talk
about what the wrong way to do this is
which would be a flip or a scoop and I
think a lot of times people misinterpret
I think that you try to flip or scoop to
get the ball up in the air so if I'm
flipping this golf ball or my hands are
flipping a lot of times that I found is
this is an effort for power so we're
going to talk about how to be powerful
without flipping that but if I flip one
here you're gonna see how my hands are
leaning back and it makes it really
difficult to hit the ball solid so there
I tried to hit it solid but I scooped it
a little bit I picked it clean off the
ground kind of thinned it
I came up a good 20 yards short of the
green and it really just didn't have
that compression that I really want on
there it feels more powerful because I'm
pushing my wrist at the golf ball or I'm
pushing my wrist which would be this way
toward the target that feels like that
should speed up the club head but that's
actually not the right way to speed up
the club head if we cover the golf ball
we can get that club head to accelerate
under its own power to really whip
through contact and make golf a lot
easier so the first move let's go over
that again here if I'm flipping I'm
taking my right palm out right hand and
I'm pushing it toward the target if you
look at the the muscles on the inside of
your forearm those are flexing to get
you to push your hand forward toward the
target a lot of times also when that
hand pushes forward I run out of room
here and my arms will start to chicken
wing or my left elbow will Bend as I
come into the follow-through
that's from that pushing type motion now
again like I said that seems powerful
I'm using a lot more muscular force here
but I'm not creating the acceleration
that one in the clubhead now if we cover
the golf ball and all that means is you
can kind of think of the loft on this
clubface at address as being up into the
sky what you're gonna feel like is
you're turning this loft down and you're
gonna cover that loft on top of the golf
ball so if I'm looking at this from a
dress I'm feeling like this is a
sensation I have in my mind is that I'm
covering and I'm taking this golf club
and covering it on top of the golf ball
like that that's the sensation again
it's not exactly what's happening but
that's the feeling you'll also feel like
your right hand your right palm instead
of flipping it's gonna feel like the
right palm of your hand covers on top of
that golf ball also so I'm really
getting my body my hand you'll notice
that my posture is on top of that golf
ball I'm not standing up out of the shot
like this everything is covering on top
of that so it's the clubface covering it
it's the right palm covering it and it's
the fact that I'm still in my posture
covering on top of the golf ball which
is where that term covering the golf
ball compressing the golf ball really
you know almost like D lofting the club
comes from so why how could that create
a lot of speed it doesn't seem like
that's going to be very powerful seems
like you should be more powerful to
really flip that club on through there
this actually happens because when
you're in this covering type position
you're actually still releasing the club
the club is on the way to releasing but
it's the fact that you still have this
forward shaft lean that allows you to
whip that club on through so if I can
imagine here let me take a club that has
forward shaft lean on it and let me pull
the butt into this grip up watch what
happens to the club head it really
accelerates on through there a very
small amount of force on the button in
this club can get that Club to whip on
through the only way I can do that
though is to have some lag and forward
shaft lean as I'm starting down so here
as I'm starting my downswing there's a
couple things I want you to feel number
one I want you to feel like your right
wrist has bent back really really bent
back number two and this is very
important I want you to feel like you're
swinging inside-out or out to the right
I almost feel like when you're
this club if I'm facing the camera here
I'm swinging the club this way about 45
degrees out to the right as I open my
body that's gonna allow that club to
square up all right so that's the first
two pieces wrists back swinging out to
the right and then number three I'll
still want to be releasing this golf
club but I want to release it in front
of this golf ball so if I put a golf
ball kind of down my target line here
say four or five feet in front I'm
imagining that I'm going from this
covered position to releasing that golf
ball and now I've gotten rid of all
these wrist angles up here that allows
me to get this compression on the golf
ball at contact and still release it to
get the speed now let's put those pieces
together on the first couple reps I want
you to do five or six things while
you're practicing focus only on the
right wrist the right wrist is staying
back and I'm gonna feel like I keep my
body rotating all the way through to a
good full finish to accelerate all the
way around so here I'm really gonna feel
like my right wrist is back that Club is
covering on top of it and I'm gonna
accelerate to a good full finish
position let's see what we hit a nice
one here there we go that one's right at
the flag just probably 10 feet right of
the flag hit that one nice and solid so
there again the right wrist is back I'm
still getting speed because I'm
naturally going to release hot in front
the second five or ten reps I want you
to do here we're gonna focus in on that
inside-out motion that we mentioned so
if we start to come over the top and
feel like we have this big lag angle I'm
gonna start chopping down into it to be
nice and shallow and thin and get that
ball cleanly off the ground I need to
have the sensation that I'm swinging
this way out to the right it's only when
my body opens up and you can see as my
hips start to open that's gonna square
that up to where I'm swinging toward the
target a lot of players keep their hips
square and they hit at it with their
hands and arms with their wrists that's
not what we want to do one have the
momentum of the body which we're going
to talk about in a little bit carry it
through there so the sensation is I'm
swinging out to the right and since my
body is opening up that actually squares
me up going toward the target so this
second five or so reps to get a little
more comfortable with it right wrist
back you're swinging to the right and
you're going to let your opening body
square everything up so let's go ahead
and try that out there we go another
good one just barely left to the flag on
that one actually hit that one too good
this gonna be a little long
yeah it's about 10 or 15 feet past the
flag now from there let's go to the last
piece here this releasing out in front
which is the last key to covering the
golf ball now if I'm covering this golf
ball again the misconception a lot of
players have is they're gonna get this
wrist angle here I'm gonna be down and
then I'm just gonna hold all that off if
I do that I'll lose tons of speed I need
to release this golf club tore that golf
ball out in front so I'm gonna have
these same ideas these same sensations
wrists back swinging out to the right
but when I go ahead and swing through
I'm gonna go ahead and let that all
release everything's going on in front
of the skull ball I'm gonna let all that
energy from the club release toward the
target and that's also what keeps it
really square as you're coming through
that nice square face gliding through
the golf ball going out toward the
target that's gonna make things a lot
easier if I feel like I'm holding off on
it it's gonna open I'm gonna block it to
the right a lot of bad stuffs gonna
happen so I have to go ahead and let
that club head go as I'm making this
swing let's give that one a world there
we go another one nice on the green just
a little right of the flag so those are
really going to help you to what's
called cover or compress the golf ball
those three areas there that's just the
first piece I got some really another
few great tips that are gonna help you
to build on this and get your game even
more consistent okay so that's a
covering of the golf ball it's really
going to help to get those wrist angles
really good now let's talk about how we
can get a lot of that you know feeling
like you're pushing again that flipping
that scooping like the arms are doing
all the work how do we get away from
that and get the momentum coming from
the body and there's actually a pretty
common mistake that brings us to our
second key which is if we're going to be
a really good iron player we have to let
the body build the momentum and then the
arm just add a little speed to it so to
get that momentum from the bottom from
the body the body has to continue to
rotate through the shot now earlier in
this video I mentioned that if we want
to cover this golf ball it's
the Ford shaft lean from the club which
is actually gonna be releasing past the
golf ball that's completely fine it's
what we want it's this right wrist at
impact being kind of angled back feeling
like your palm is covering the golf ball
and then that's releasing after impact
and then third I mentioned that your
upper body or your posture you have to
be kind of down where your upper body's
feeling like it's on top of this golf
ball which is going to help you to feel
that sensation of covering that now what
most players do what they get wrong is
that when they're hitting this iron shot
they tend to let their hips come forward
their upper body comes up and back and
now all of a sudden if I was to have
this covered motion to really have the
forward shaft lean I couldn't reach the
golf ball all right if I was covered I'd
be here but if I stand up out of my
posture all of a sudden I can't reach
the golf ball so what do I do to solve
this problem I start to flip and scoop
like we talked about we don't want to do
earlier and that creates all that bad
contact so if we want to get the
momentum from the body there's two
things that have to happen here we have
to get it in a position to where I can
be down and covered and stay in my
posture but then still have everything
moving on through that's where the big
key comes in a lot of players that try
to cover the golf ball what they'll do
is they'll stay down in their posture
but then they just stay down in there
forever
right so it ends up being all arms it
doesn't work and it feels terrible
well we actually want to have happen
here is as I start my downswing
if you imagine my belt buckle there's a
laser shooting out of that as I start my
downswing I want that to be going down
toward the golf ball so my hips are kind
of down toward the golf ball my chest is
down so with the golf ball but then as I
finish my swing now all that comes up my
belt buckles facing up toward the target
my chest is nice and high if I had the
laser shooting out of my shirt buttons
it would be nice and high here and I'm
coming all the way along around my chins
even nice and high that allows me to
complete the swing and that's when I
actually have extension so early
extension has a lot of people call it or
what would be the opposite of covering
the golf ball is when my upper body
extends early it extends in the
downswing as I'm coming into the golf
ball the proper extension or later
extension would be coming down covering
the golf ball and then
extend up has it coming through the fall
through the cool thing about this it
ties in with exactly what we talked
about when we took this but in the club
and we let it whip through the ball if I
get a bunch of this lag and now I'm down
in my posture as I extend up I'm taking
this grip and I'm pulling it up that
allows the club to whip on through with
a ton of momentum now I could use the
momentum of my body now I can use my
hips and the big muscles of my body to
carry that club through there so let's
try this out do another 5 or 10 reps for
me as you start your downswing feel like
everything until your left arms about
halfway in the downswing feel like
everything is getting closer to the
ground my belt buckles down my chest is
down everything is down I feel like I'm
really gonna be close this ball covering
on top of it and then as you finish so
we're gonna pause in that position a few
times so go back to your set up pause
and fill that position and then as I
finish I'm money everything whip on
through now my belt buckles up my chest
is up my chin is up and I'm coming to
that good full finish position 5 or 10
of those just pausing in each piece
pause here and then pause on the good
pull finish you're gonna start to build
that muscle memory and what you're gonna
feel the sensation I get is almost like
my body is doing a lot of the momentum
and the club is just swinging along my
club and arms or just swinging with the
momentum of our body like we talked
about early those hands swing out to the
right as my body momentum opens up that
squares the face that gets this club
really working with us rather than
against us so let's try that out again
watch as I first start my downswing
my chest feels like it's getting closer
to the ground then I'm coming to that
good full finish let's give it a whirl
see if I can cover this one and really
let that Club release out in front of
this golf ball
all right nice and solid definitely
covered it you can see I stated my
posture all right so we covered piece
number one we got to cover the ball we
got to really compress it piece number
two we got to create momentum from the
body by using those hips and really
coming through that good full finish and
piece number three we have to make sure
that we're shallow and we don't chop
down into this golf ball if we start to
come start a downswing in our butt into
the club imagine there's a laser
pointing out of this it's pointing
inside the golf ball now all of a sudden
I'm going to chop down into this or
again if I feel myself starting to come
down really steeply what's the natural
thing I bet you're a really good athlete
and you do this without even having to
think about it you start down a little
steep and then to shallow that out you
let the hips come forward you let the
body back out and then all of a sudden
you flip a little bit to keep yourself
from slamming this club down into the
end of the golf into the ground what we
have to do now is to shallow that Club
out so if I was making a swing here and
I've paused again kind of in the first
half of my downswing I want the butt
into that club to be pointing either if
we're looking from down the line either
at the golf ball or a little outside the
golf ball so that now again as I extend
on through that clubs coming nicely down
the plane line and I can whip on through
there get that Club to release in front
without having to shallow it out if I
start down steep again if I try to cover
it then I'm slamming down into the
ground so what you're naturally going to
do if you start down steep you're gonna
stand up and you're gonna flip so all
these things tie into each other
now you remember in the first part of
this video how talked about how you want
to have this sensation that you're
swinging out to the right this is really
going to pair up with what I'm about to
talk about here I want to feel like that
Club is shallowed out there and it feels
like I'm swinging out to the right so if
I pause myself halfway down and I didn't
open my body at all my body was square I
want to feel like I'm in a position
where I could swing this way or if that
club would be really shallow here I'm
coming away from the inside the only
thing that squares that up is now as my
body rotates on through that brings that
club coming through and allows it to
whip on through so if you imagine if I
get this club way to the inside and I
open up my body look how that really
whips the club on through
so I'm just opening my body and the
momentum of the club wants it to whip
through from shallow shallow position
what I don't want to do here if I was
steep and I opened up my body watch
what's gonna happen
that's clubs gonna want to really get
stuck under really chopped down it's
almost going to want to hit me I'm
working against the momentum of the club
if I'm shallow I can open up and work
with the momentum of the club so here I
want you to make a couple practice
swings
pause halfway down and really feel like
to you before you're opening your hips
you're setting up to swing to this golf
bag over here I'm just gonna swing away
to the right like that if I was to hit a
golf ball doing that without opening my
body it would look something like this
way over there I think I probably ate
that one in the water almost thirty
forty-five degrees right that's because
I didn't let the momentum on my body
open everything up I'm gonna make that
same swing now but I'm gonna go ahead
and open up my hips and that's gonna
swing everything toward the target
that's a real big key there look at all
the tour players look at their body at
contact you're not going to see anybody
in this position on the PGA Tour you'll
see a lot of guys that are opening the
hips at contact really finishing that
swing coming back to the left so the
third key here is you're gonna feel like
halfway down the butt into your club is
pointing way out to the right and you're
gonna feel like that club is nice and
shallow then you let your body open up
just square back up the face let's give
that a whirl there we go I might hit
that one the best of any of them eisah
let's recap on these really good keys
number one we want to cover the ball
that happens from my right wrist my
clubface in my body all being on top of
the golf ball
the big key there is that I can't hold
this angle forever I have to release
that Club after contact I don't want to
be flipping into here I want to be
feeling like that Club swinging to the
right and my right hand is covering on
top of that golf ball
number two we have to use the momentum
of the body if I stop my momentum and I
keep everything feeling like it's down
toward the ground I never come up out of
that I'm gonna have to use all hands and
arms you're naturally not going to do
that what
you're gonna do is early extend and
start to flip doing that we don't want
to do that we have to make sure that we
get that nice squat everything is
staying covered over top of the golf
ball but then as we come to the finish
we're really letting the belt buckle the
chest the chin everything come up and
again that's gonna whip this club on
through let the club do the work for you
then number three we can't be steep if I
start down and feel like my club shaft
is steep like this as I open up that's
gonna get me in a terrible position I
need to feel like I'm shallowing out
swinging way out to the right and then
let my opening body carry the club
toward the target if we do those three
pieces we're gonna put them all together
we're gonna hit those nice crisp clean
golf shots and you're gonna feel really
really confident when you're sitting
over top of your iron shots
hey guys welcome back now we all want to
hit those solid irons but all whether we
want to compress that golf ball and
think in your mind that player that you
know they may not be very big they may
not be very strong but when they hit a
golf ball it sounds heavy on the face it
has a loud boom to it even though the
swing doesn't look very hard that ball
takes off it penetrates through the air
there one of the longest hitters in your
group even though they may not have
quite as much club head speed as some
other players well that's what we all
want to be we all want to be that guy
that has that heavy hit that really
solid strike and it feels like every
single one of them is really really
solid what is it that happens for the
opposite players a lot of times what I
see are players that are losing forward
shaft lean they're kind of flipping the
club through contact here and it's it
having that heavy powerful hit the ball
just kind of floats up in the air maybe
we lose that shot to the ride it starts
to leak off to the right and goes into
the rough maybe it even slices a little
bit when we really hit one bad and it
really just feels weak you swing hard
the harder you swing the weaker it goes
the shorter it goes so that's the first
problem
when pros are hitting the golf ball when
players that have that heavy hitter
hitting the golf ball what they're doing
is they're taking loft off this club so
my hands are in front of the golf club
in front of the head at impact the shaft
is leaning forward and they're taking
loft off of the natural off of this Golf
Club so if I'm swinging you know an
8-iron here pros we're taking about 30%
of the loft off the club every club is a
little bit different but an 8-iron
probably has you know let's call it 37
degrees aloft something like that on it
they're taking that all the way down
pros are taking that all the way down to
26 25 degrees aloft when they're
actually hitting the ball by getting
that shaft leaning forward when you do
that and it takes that loft off there
it's like hitting a golf ball with a
hammer you're taking that loft off and
it's transferring all that weight into
the golf ball now if I took the opposite
approach that imagine I'm hitting a flop
shot and the face is wide open I could
swing 200 miles an hour coming as hard
as I want to but that balls is going to
glanced across that's why sometimes you
feel like you're swinging really hard
the ball is not going anywhere so that's
the first piece number one we got a deal
off that Club and I'm going to show you
guys a great trick to make that happen
to get that heavier hit then number two
we got to hit that clubface when it's
closing down
so a lot of times players will have that
face opening up a bit again that weaker
shot that kind of flies to the right
maybe in that slice that floats up in
the air that's opening the face and what
happens there when I open this face even
if I have forward shaft lean if I open
that face I'm adding loft to it so I
need to take off loft by having forward
shaft lean and I need to take off even
more loft by hitting a little bit of a
draw for most players
now pros can in a fade or a draw that's
getting really really precise with this
but for most players I say let's go
ahead and hit that nice low powerful
draw if you overdo it maybe you get a
couple hooks in there but you're gonna
be hitting it longer you're gonna be
hitting a lot of great quality shots so
if we can deal off the club and get it
to draw we're gonna be way better off
than most the players that we're gonna
be playing so now let's talk about a
little trick that we can get to actually
make this happen it's all great in
theory we say ok I understand the heavy
head I understand how pros are doing
that but I can't do it myself alright
let's have a cheat where we can make
this happen so the first thing we're
going to do let's go ahead and set up to
this golf ball with our feet kind of
kind of together only about five or six
inches four inches or so a club head
width apart directly in front of the
golf ball
so I'm imagine I'm gonna hit it this way
now what I want you to do from there is
I want you to take your left foot and I
want you to open it about 45 degrees so
it looks like this then I want you to
pick up your right foot and I want you
to match that to your left foot okay so
now both of my toes are even with each
other they're facing about 45 degrees in
front if you look at that ball position
it's kind of on my right heel I may be a
little bit too far forward there maybe
just toward the back center of my stance
will be perfect as far as this now the
reason I'm using this crazy forward
stance is because now that's going to
force me to get some forward shaft lean
force me to get in front of this golf
ball and it's really gonna help me to
compress that golf ball and hit it low I
want you to about four or five shots and
just try to get that ball to fly as low
as you can you don't want to go more
than say 30 or 40 yards while you're
doing this but I'm really going to try
to deal off that Club really get that
worm burner so that's exactly what that
one did it kind of took off probably
went closer to 100 and 120 yards even
though I barely swung just because it
had a lot of pop to it it really
transferred a lot of energy to it so the
next thing I'm gonna do after I've done
a few of those and I get used to hitting
it low that's the D lofting part that we
talked about now we got to make sure
that we're gonna hit that draw now again
is every player have to hit a draw no I
like to play a fade there's a lot of
pros that play a fade I'm not saying
that the draw is the only way to go but
I'm saying for those of you who aren't
getting as heavy a hit as you'd like
hitting that draw is going to transfer a
lot more energy into it it's going to
get you hitting it farther and you're
really gonna have a lot more fun playing
this game if we can do that so this time
what I want you to do still have that
forward shaft lean but really feel like
you turn those hands down if I had my
left wrist I'm going to turn my logo of
my glove to the ground and I want to
feel like my hand releases by doing this
keeping that logo of the glove to the
ground so if I was exaggerating that
with a golf club it would be this motion
I'm letting that Club D loft and rotate
around now I'm really exaggerating here
this would be taking that clubface and
bring it to outside of the club that
would be a big time snap hook if I
really did this just a little bit goes a
long way but I'll know I'm doing it
right if I hit that really low shot and
that ball starts to curve from right to
left I'd love to see you guys just go
ahead and overdo this at first I'd
rather see a guy play a 20-yard hook and
really compress the heck out of it at
first
we can always tone down do a little bit
less and straighten that shot out but
until we really felt that heavy hit it's
a hard thing to describe until you've
experienced that yourself so really
really exaggerate on this so this one
I'm really gonna hit that low draw that
ball really started to cut or it really
started to draw even over drew but it's
still got some pretty good distance for
a little half shot now these are just
drills to help you get this sensation of
that heavy hit it's like basically just
a giant you know chip shot punch shot
that we're hitting here as you get more
comfortable with that now let's try to
keep that feeling of a heavy hit but
let's gradually get our stance more back
to normal so if this is the drill that
we just did feet facing in front really
got a lot of forward shaft lean hooking
that ball I want you to gradually start
to get your stance closer to normal so
start to get your toes pointing a little
bit more back toward this golf ball and
try to recreate that same heavy hit that
you had when you're really exaggerating
there we go so that one's nice draw
really low those are almost getting to
the green from 150 yards with a little
punch 8-iron that's just how much energy
is getting transferred in this ball
so then ounce I get comforter with that
I'm gonna go from here and I'm gonna go
a little bit more toward a normal stance
I'm gonna hit a few more see if I can
get that nice heavy low penetrating ball
flight and then I'm gonna go back to my
normal stance and I'm gonna try to
recreate the same feel it should be
normal then you're lower than your
normal ball flight it should turn over a
little bit more right-to-left probably
than your normal ball flight but again
we can always tone that down a little
bit I just want you to get get you guys
really over compressing the golf ball
here at first so after I've done these
drills I'm gradually going to go back to
my normal stance making sure that I try
to get that forward shaft lean with each
one really compress the golf ball you
guys are gonna hit some great shots
hitting behind the ball that even means
thinning the ball where it just kind of
shoots and dribbles across the fairway
or into the green that's embarrassing or
flat-out cold chunking the ball that's
probably the most frustrating and the
most embarrassing thing you can do in
golf you make that full swing you chunk
it it barely just kind of squirts down
the fairway and is like you just want to
break all of your clubs it's so
frustrating when that happens so let's
talk about what's really going on when
you hit behind the golf ball and how to
get that divot in front and I have a
very simple work along with you for you
today just grab a club right now let's
start to make these swings and if you do
what I say here we're going to be
getting that divot in front of the golf
ball very very consistently in just a
matter of minutes here so grab a club
let's go ahead and get started now if
you saw in those last videos the most
common thing that I see when someone is
hitting behind the golf ball and if you
hit behind the golf ball I almost
promise that you're doing at least one
if not all of these things commonly what
happens is a player will stand up or
lose their posture so my hips start to
go toward the golf ball this gets me
farther away from the golf ball and now
all of a sudden I feel like I have to
kind of flip at it so I'm reaching to
get to the golf ball on top of that the
most common pattern with this is to be
falling back on the right side as this
happening so I'm standing up I'm
flipping and I'm falling back on my
right foot that brings my low point down
here behind the golf ball so if you look
at this slow motion see how my club is
actually grounding out behind the go
ball first that's either gonna do one of
two things you're gonna cold chunk it
because you're hitting the ground hard
enough and it's stopping the club or
you're barely going to miss the ground
your clubs gonna be on the way up coming
into the ball and you're gonna hit a lot
of thin shots or you're barely gonna
have to pick it clean a good surefire
way of seeing if this is you do you feel
like you have to fluff the ball up on a
nice perfect lie to make good contact or
can you put the ball down on bare ground
and make good contact if I have to fluff
the ball up if I'm hitting behind it
this is absolutely what's going on so
let's break it down into three pieces
the first one being the standing up now
what happens when I stand up usually
what's going on here is that I feel like
I need to make room to throw my hands at
it so we have to get used to the hands
actually being closer to the ground
which is the second thing that we'll
work on here but I want to cover the
golf ball you're here pros talk about it
all the time I'm gonna talk about
exactly what this is so when I cover the
golf ball what's happening here is my
upper body is staying down so my chest
is more facing toward the ground rather
than doing this and coming away from it
my hips are staying back and I'm
clearing out of the way now what that
allows me to do is get my weight in
front get this forward shaft lean of the
club and when I have this shaft leaning
forward I can hit the ball first and
then the ground that gives me a lot of
consistency mainly because or one of the
reasons is because if I have this shaft
leaning back you'll see how I'm gonna
make contact more toward the bottom of
the golf club as I lean the shaft
farther and further forward you can see
I now that brings the contact point up
the face so I can now come down I don't
have to be as precise and I'm gonna hit
a little higher on the face more toward
the sweet spot even if I even if I don't
touch the ground at all if I'm flipping
standing up then I'm gonna hit behind it
so here's what I want you to do for this
drill drop the club for a second let's
do about 20 reps putting your arms side
out to the sides of your body and then
you're gonna rotate back make a good
full rotation going back and I'm keeping
my arms kind of pointing down to this
golf ball and then as I come down here's
my downswing here's halfway down and
here's contact when I'm about 45 degrees
open
notice how I'm still down in my posture
everything's coming down that will be
contact
have this club again let me go ahead and
rest it here here's my contact position
hips shoulders arms everything open 45
degrees now all I have to do because
I've stayed in my posture is grab this
golf club put it on the golf ball and
you'll notice how everything is in a
very pro light position here what you
see on the PGA Tour
everything is open Club shaft leaning
forward very easy to hit in this golf
ball so 20 reps coming back in through
pausing at contact and then coming all
the way around to a good full finish
that's gonna look something like this
keeping my arms pointing down there's
contact I get that feeling of what my
body would feel like and then I'm coming
all the way through so 20 reps of that
then you grab a club the fact that
you're tilting forward I'm not doing
this I don't want to see it I don't want
to see this coming up out of my posture
the fact that my arms are staying tilted
down my shoulders are staying tilted
down that helps keep me in my posture so
20 reps of that then I'm ready to go
ahead and grab a golf club and make a
swing there we go so you can see that
one I brushed a little bit of grass in
front of the golf ball made sure I took
a little bit of a divot there but we're
seeing nice and clean good distance with
that 4-iron nice and straight too so
even though I hit the ground it was in
front of the golf ball and I have this
white line here so it makes it easier to
see where that contact is happening
let's go on to the next piece so now
we're in our posture a little bit that
takes care of this standing up now let's
work on the flipping when you're hitting
behind the golf ball a lot of times
what's going on there bit a little bit
lower I don't want to cheat here a lot
of times it's going on I stand up and I
flip maybe I'm scooping these hands
that's an effort to try to hit the golf
ball a little harder or to get a little
higher in the air either way what pros
are doing is they're getting their hands
actually closer to the ground so I'm
gonna exaggerate here imagine that I'm
making my downswing and my hands scrape
the ground we're gonna see this club
already on the turf here and as my hands
move up the club could glide level for a
very long period of time you call that a
flat spot or I call that impact glide
and what that means is the best players
in the world
and you'll see what this divot is nice
and thin I'm not chopping down in the
ground
that means if I get my hands low enough
coming into contact my hands can move up
and my club is going to glide through
the turf if I'm staying back and I'm
flipping my hands are high and now I
have to throw the ball to throw the club
head down at the ball and it's going to
be a very kind of v-shaped divot impact
glide or having those hands low as my
hands work back up and again my body
gets opening up like we just worked on
now that Club can glide through the turf
so again another 20 reps here's we're
going to practice number one get those
hands as low as you can as they're in
front of your right leg then from there
feel like you're gonna have the hands
raised up and hit that divot in front of
the golf ball just like that so I'll do
about five or ten practice swings here
just to show you or a few practice wings
I don't want it to look just like that
you can feel how your club just brushes
the turf rather than slamming down into
it so 20 reps of that get the hands as
low as you can brush the turf sorry my
watch is going off on me here so my
hands are as low as I can I'm brushing
the turf as it come through and we're
gonna see that divot in front again nice
forward shaft lean even there even
though I didn't quite hit enough ground
brush the turf but where I was gliding
through contact
you really don't see any difference the
shot came out just as good even though I
hit it a little bit thin for myself
speaking for myself I could have taken a
little bit more turf and it would have
been even better but again you have that
forgiveness you have that consistency if
my hands are high there's no way to
reach this golf ball without flipping if
my hands are lower so you see if my
hands come down now I'll get that
forward shaft lean so it's really
crucial to work on getting your hands
lower finally here let's work on getting
your weight to the left the biggest
mistake I see with this everybody wants
their weight more to the to the left
side so they preset it to the left and I
hear a lot of players or a lot of
coaches telling players if you're
struggling getting to left sit up with
your weight on your left side what I
found happens when we do this is as the
weight we make our back
swing we realize I'm too far left now
I've got my weight on my left side I'm
Way left over here and I know if I swing
down I'm just going to chop into that
ball so your body being pretty smart
realizes I've got to go back to the
right and you end up falling back again
it looks something like this as you make
your backswing too far left and then you
fall back stand up and flip obviously we
don't want that to happen that's not
going to be as consistent what I want
you to do is to actually start out with
your weight on your right foot and
specifically on the inside of the right
foot before you even swing so I don't
want to be way out here on the outside
of the foot I want it to feel like the
inside like almost like I'm gripping
with the inside cleats
I'm kind of digging those into the
ground a little bit that's going to put
some pressure on my right foot as I make
my take away then my pressure is going
to get as far as it can on the right
side or as far as it will in the swing
so what I mean by this is when players
are messing this up they're too far left
to start and they don't get the weight
to the right side then in the downswing
they adjust and fall back here's the
thing that's going to solve that for you
we need to get the weight to the right
much earlier and then we need to start
going to the left much earlier in the
downswing so when we look at pressure
plates shows the foot pressure with the
world's best players what we found time
and time again is that the best players
in the world max out pressure into the
right foot very early in the backswing
you're pretty much maxed out but time
your left arm reaches parallel with the
ground as they complete their swing now
I'm going to the left so here's the
right way to do that I'm going to follow
along for you number one set up with
that weight inside of your right foot at
address as you do your takeaway push the
right foot very slightly into the ground
now from here get your weight back to
the left and then swing down now that
sounds really complicated that's why
there's a great drill that's going to
make you do this every single time it's
a little step drill all you're gonna do
here is as you make your take-away lift
up your left foot just very slightly off
the ground then push into your left foot
and swing down so it looks like this I'm
gonna start my feet a little closer
together I'll lift my foot to start
that gets all my weight on my right side
100% of the weight on the right side as
I push into the ground before I start my
downswing now my weights back left just
like I want it to be and then when I
finish I finish with my weight on my
left side so if I do that it looks like
this early step push then swing down a
good 20 reps of that step early push
into the ground then swing down as I
make that one fluid motion it looks like
this and you can see how my weight
easily moves from right to left so my
weight is moving to the left as I hit
this golf ball you do that drill 20 30
times it's gonna feel very natural the
biggest mistake I see his players
waiting to take their step until the
downswing that's not what we want we
want to take the step push to the left
then take the downswing
just like you're throwing a baseball I
step weights left then I throw so do
that 20 times get that rhythm and
finally we're gonna be able take this
nice divot in front of the golf ball
again really hit this clean there we go
and I really tried to exaggerate even
hitting down a little bit more into that
one but you see how it didn't dig it's a
nice thin squared of it I could hit the
ground pretty hard and I made sure I'm
making ball first contact every single
time now what don't we go from here one
of the things I mentioned is we got to
get these hands low in that club
releasing in front of the golf ball we
have to have this shaft leaning forward
I call it the straight line release him
a Topsy golf system and what that means
is the very first time my club passes my
hands or catches up with my hands the
very first time that my club shaft
splits my forearms should be about 45
degrees in front of the golf ball
now that's an easy thing to do once you
learn the proper way to do it and I have
an awesome bonus video I'm gonna play a
preview that here in a second all you do
is just click the card that pops up on
the screen or the link down below in the
description you'll get started right
away on that straight line release build
on what you did here today and man
contact is gonna get so easy that you
can't wait to go play golf so best of
luck let's go ahead and get started in a
straight line release right now a common
misconception I see is that we want to
create lag and we just want to hold that
lag all the way on through
contact and get as much lag as we can
coming through contact and that's simply
not true in the release section we're
going to talk about how to turn that lag
into energy how to turn that into speed
so that you can hit it very far and do
it like we mentioned without hardly any
effort at all and as we're coming
through contact we're going to fully
release this angle as we're about 45
pass contact so if I draw you know a 45
degree angle I should be looking at both
arms nice and straight the club
splitting those arms so that by
releasing the club by getting this angle
to release as we're coming through
contact that's what's going to create
the speed our hands are moving a very
short distance our club is moving a very
long distance through contact and it
creates that whip-like effect very
different swings hitting the exact same
position so first let's take a look at
Dustin Johnson releasing the club 45
past and the reason we're going to see
such similar or such different swings
producing similar positions is that this
is the real physics of how this has to
happen here we're looking at Sergio
Garcia again we're going to seat
you